# Data from: Approximately 15% of miscanthus yield is lost at current commercial cutting heights in Iowa
*Add DOI*

## Description of the data and file structure

This repository contains data and code related to the study on cutting height and its effects on Miscanthus x giganteus (Mxg) stem mass and density. The data is organized into several directories, each containing specific types of data and scripts.

### Directory Structure

- `.snakemake/`: Contains auxiliary files, conda environments, logs, metadata, and other files generated by Snakemake.
- `code/`: Contains R scripts used for data analysis and visualization.
  - `calc_stem_mass_stats.R`
  - `model_mxg_stem_linear_density.R`
  - `plot_mxg_cutting_height.R`
  - `plot_weather_data.R`
  - `read_mxg_stem.R`

- `data/`: Contains the data used in the study.
  - `external/`: Data collected from external sources.
- `environment.yml`: Conda environment file.
- `LICENSE`: License information.
- `README.md`: This file.
- `Snakefile`: Snakemake workflow file.

### Data Description
Data used in the study is stored in the `data/external` directory. Once you run the Snakemake workflow, the data will be processed and stored in the `data/internal` directory. The external data files are described below:

#### `weather/columbus_junct_data.txt`
Weather data collected from the "Columbus Junct 2 SSW" COOP station, which is 11.3 km NW of the Southeast Research Farm where the Mxg field trial was conducted. The data includes daily low temperature, high temperature, and precipitation. The data was obtained from the (Iowa Environmental Mesonet)[https://mesonet.agron.iastate.edu/request/coop/fe.phtml]

